#Swift.ly Analysis Project

##Introduction
When they're not driving their BMWs (poorly, I might add), what modes of transportation do rich people take? Do people use different modes of transportation weekends than they do on weekdays? How far are people willing to walk in denser areas vs in suburbia? These are all questions that my team examined in the Swiftly data analysis project.

This was a group project given out in my QBA 200A class in the Olin School of Business. Our Professor, Jake Feldman, was a data scientist at a startup in San Francisco named Swift.ly, and brought with him actual datasets from the company. Swift.ly is a phone app that specializes in utilizing information like Uber prices and travel time, making useful predictions. The data we analyzed was from user app data. Using skills that we acquired in R and sqldf (the SQL package in R, which is essentially the same thing as SQL), we cleaned up the datasets, merged them, and vizualized any interesting trends using the ggplot package in R. 

The goal of the project was to engage in exploratory data analysis. We were given several open ended questions (among metrics like income, population density, distance, and time, what factors affect travelling habits, and how so?) and around 67,000 data points across several .csv files. There was not an incredible amount of cleaning work necessary (many data points did have missing data, however), but joining the spreadsheets, along with excluding irrelevant data to make for clearer visualization of trends, did require some effort and thought.

Vizualization of the data occured in bar graphs, histograms, pie charts, and scatter graphs. As per project criteria, vizualization did not necessarily have to be (at least from my graphic design standards) pretty. We simply used the output generated by ggplot, leaving me feeling a bit antsy. If I had my way, I would make everything pretty.

The project was a great way to get our feet wet in data analysis. The spreadsheets were fun to work with, and the trends that we revealed gave some interesting options and insights to the company. In addition to analyzing the data, our group discussed  how our results could be used in the future and what additional data could be provided.

##Class Paper
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MDTTP8oRLgIRa0N3GOu-LqzrUiPvHML5V83aUZtAPjw/edit
You can view our full research paper at the link above. It includes analyses of the graphs we created, alongside a discussion of potential problems with the data.
